Chapter 2 - Aki

Wohoooo! I'm soooooo happy that they're sending me to the Quiet Isles!! I will no longer have to deal with all those loud stupid people working in the hexes (they're hexagonal shaped desks which form what used to be called offices). My boss finally understood that keeping me there was thwarting all my special abilities. I simply cannot concentrate when there is so much chaos around. People get up constantly. They go to the bathroom (on average 53.5 times per day for my hex). They go get their drink of the day (on average 42.5 times per day). They talk to the other workers at my hex (I feel like this number would be close to infinity, but that would be grossly overestimating it). But the worse thing is when they want to talk to ME! Actually, talking is not a good description. They would ask me questions on how to solve the problem that have on hands. The rudeness is un-be-lie-va-ble. They have approaches as moronic as "Can I ask you a question while you work?". Inside I want to scream "HOW CAN I WORK IF YOU DON'T LET ME?!", but what comes out of my mouth, while I look down to their feet is "How can I help?". My happy place, my flow of work, is constantly destroyed like an avalanche coming down the mountain to a grassy area surrounded by fences, a blue sky and a small perfectly shaped yurt. The result is that I'm constantly exhausted. The streets are so chaotic I want to scream and scratch ears at the same time, but they taught me ways in school on how to cope with the trip from my cubicle home to work. What really tires me out is this constant work buzz. The music, the laughs, the getting up and sitting down, the questions, so-many-questions! I end up only really working at night and then I don't get enough sleep which makes things worse.

Anyway, all of that is goooooone! Some inspector from the Quiet ministry came over to the office to do an audit and had red marks all over his device. I guess they identified me as a quiet person in the office and had a good long chat with my boss. A civilised one, because shouting would just make ME nervous. The same day my boss said that I could start working remotely and, if I wanted to, they would relocate me to the Quiet Isles. I almost shivered with this news and my body's response was very unlike the no expression "Yes, sir" I normally do. I actually hugged him! I may have overdone it as he started weezing and coughing hard as I let him go, but I was just so happy inside to be moving to the Isles that I … I don't know! I was just super happy!

Over the next couple of days I said goodbye first to the cat lady down the hall from my cubicle. She was always nice to me, even though I will never understand how anyone can have cats inside a cubicle. Then I tried saying goodbye to Mr. Peacock, but he is too deaf to understand anything around him anymore. Being deaf has actually been one of the his good traits because there is rarely any sound coming from his cubicle. He just reads a lot. Finally I said goodbye to my own cubicle, touched all its corners, thanked each wall for protecting me at night from the outside chaos, and picked up the sleeping bag, the holo-device where I watch Manga, the toothbrush and the three black full body suits I own. I put everything in a box and got on the fast train out of the city into the port area which connects with the Isles.

Oh! I forget that when you read this, you may not know what these Isles represent. The Quiet Isles are seen as exile to some, but as a peaceful heaven-on-earth piece of land for most. Years ago, the directed mutations planned by the Distributed Scientists Network (DSN) took a wrong turn. They had been playing gods for while, knocking down some genes and reenabling others to improve life expectancy, make people less lazy and all that kind of stuff. But one of the changes they made and applied to a test group of the population went wrong. Well, actually I think it went right, but people keep telling me that it's subjective. The mutation took pre-existing autism levels to a whole new league. The individuals that had the predisposition, over night became unable to sleep in the same bed as their life partners, no touching was possible in any situation and any loud sound or confusing movement such as jaywalking became extremely hard to handle. I should know, because it happened to me. Fortunately, after a couple of years of being laughed at and abused, the people we now call Quiet, took some seats in power and created the ministry. The first thing that they did was to abolish the word Autism which was being abused and called people with this characteristic simply as Quiet. Then they found an archipelago off the mainland which was uninhabited and declared it the Quiet Isles, a place where the rules are made for Quiet people, not everyone else. In fact, most people aren't authorized to go to the Quiet Isles. But I now am, and it will be super!
