Chapter 4 - Apep

Under the sea. Of course we had to move to the oceans. The unavoidability was almost as clear pollution itself. When the trash became so much on land that we started making hills on top of hills of it, the land subsided and stopped producing any kind of food. That, along with the earthquakes and volcanoes erupting all the time, meant that there were only two ways out, space and the sea. We would have gone to space for sure, and some even tried, only to report inadaptations that resulted in coming back to Earth or worse, staying out there and suffer. So we went to the sea. After all it's 70% of the Earth's surface and even with our consistent trashing it, there was still space at the bottom for us to build colonies. No, we did not delevop gills like mermaids or aquamen, that was only for the select few that had the money for genetic adaptions. The rest of us lived in domes. Huge domes at the bottom of the sea, mostly using the Earth's geowarmth to keep the minimum services going and a small nuclear fusion core right in the middle of the dome. In the beginning of the move some people complained about having a nuclear plant "so close to home", but when they saw that it was either that or death, they quickly changed their minds. Nuclear did not only help with heating and life support (O2 was cheaper to fetch from the water, than from the surface heavily polluted air), it also powered all electrical devices inside. Those devices without which we no longer know how to live.
The majority of the population works on keeping the dome alive and well, not just because that is home, but because it's the only place where we know how to be now. Communications with the mainland stopped 32 years ago, when the latest and most powerful solar flare occured, so we don't even know if there is anyone out there. In fact, the youngest generation has never left the dome's surroundings, so you could argue that they don't know any better.
What's my part in this? I work at the scrubbers, the non-pompous title is scrub tech, because that is exactly what I take care of. I make sure that the O2 scrubbing machines are working to full capacity.
You'd think that with a title like this I would be down the food ladder right there with cleaners or something, but I'm actually quite a big shot here. Medical doctors can help you with cuts and bruises, but due to no longer being exposed to the outside world, there isn't much in the way of disease here. But if a scrub tech does a poor job... well, we all die a slow (or fast!) painful death by asphixiation. Yeah! You didn't see that one coming, right? I have to admit that 40 years ago I wouldn't either. I was a mechanical Engineer back in the mainland. I designed and built parts for cars. But the dome is 10km across, so cars don't make sense here. Besides, people hate them for their part on the pollution up top. So when I arrived here, and they had to give me something to do... scrub tech is what came up! I can't complain though. At least now I'm actually doing something that improves people's lives and though you may think it's a boring job, there is always something happening to keep you entertained. Besides, the science of the scrubbers has evolved quite a bit with the scientists and engineers that live here. There is nothing that having skin in the game to innovate, right? We are now pairing up with biologists to try to use membranes instead of filters do the CO2 to O2 conversion at a much lower energy cost. Really interesting stuff, even though most Domers don't have any idea of what we are doing here. When I used to try to explain this to others, they honestly thought we did some kind of witchcraft to turn the air breathable again.

32 years... man, that is a long time to be stuck inside a not-so-giant dome several quilometers underwater. Every now and then we have someone who goes crazy and tries to swim out. If they are successful at eluding the perimeter guards, which is not easy, and they manage to somehow temporarily disable the shield we have a few hundred metres out to protect us from the mutated sea life, they either get eaten by such sea life or suffocate to death before arriving anywhere. There is always a shimmer of hope in these people, but the fact is that nobody has ever returned to say that it's awesome out there and that we should join them.
We do let people go out in the vicinity of the dome, mostly to grow and harvest food as well as do some experiments to test the water. Dr. Williams, the head biologist, heads that department, and his silence about the water studies tells me that I don't want to know what they are coming back with.
It just ocurred to me that you may be thinking that I'm pretty old having lived here for 32 years. I'm not! Well, I am balding, but it's a family trait to become bald early in the life of the males of the family. I'm actually 44. Yeah yeah, I know it doesn't add up. How is this guy 44 and was working as an engineer 32 years ago! I'm *ahem* one of those precocious kids. "Gifted", some people who don't know anything about it, used to say. I did primary school in 1 year, highschool in 3 and university in two and a half. Why did I take so long with highschool I hear you asking? I was bullied. A lot. So I didn't want to go to school. There! Happy now? Life story right there. What's yours?
Anyhow... I started working as an engineer as soon as I finished Uni. They were eager to get any engineers that they could take at that time. Too many problems happening at the same time. Ironically, the conscription ministry sent me to a car factory of all places. Cars are like cigarrettes. You know that they're bad for you but you don't just stop using them. You try to make them less bad, because the adiction is so bad.
I can't say that in the short time I had in the factory before being sent away to this dome made much difference. We were too deep into the hole.
Around here, however, I can do a lot more good. That membranes project, it will revolutionise our dome and make it possible to build others around us, by using extensions. The dome is a very specific size and shape to be able to withhold all the pressure from the water on top of us, but the real limitation is that we can't have more population density with the current scrub technology. Thanks to the nuclear plant energy is not a problem, but we simply cannot convert any more O2. This limitation came with a sad rule of law. Population has to be kept to a specific number, so until somebody dies, no one is allowed to be born. That changed the way people live down here over the last few years. It is now common for older people to proactively submit to euthanasia for the good of the dome and though there are strict rules on coupling, there are always exceptions and abortions are a bit too common. Buuuut... all that could change if we could build dome extensions with the scrub membrane technology! I am super excited about this prospect and working my arse off to make this viable. I personally think that we are weeks out, but Dr. Williams is not so optimistic. I think it's because he just doesn't "get it". I know nothing about biology, but systems are systems and there is no reason for this not to work. Speaking of, the test just finished, back to work!