Chapter 3 - Onius

This whole "let me write the story down for posterity" feels weird. I mean, I need to do it. No. I WANT to do it. But if feels very "dear diary". And I always made fun of people with diaries. I mean, why would you write down your deepest flaws and darkest secrets. It's really just asking for someone to find the file you wrote down and then abuse you. Anyhow, that's what I'd do. But this is different. This is to make sure that if, no, WHEN, everything goes to shit, that who/whatever comes next, does not fall into the same mistakes.

Yesterday, one of those Enhanced people I was talking about, showed up at the yard. It started with the hums of a very distinguishable and very loud hover machine outside. All the people at the yard knew immediately that this was something abnormal. You do not hear the fabricated noise of a Tesla near a yard unless the Tesla is crashing down from the sky. People who are that rich don't even come to this part of the metropolis. They just send their underlings to do their work. And you can trust me when I say that the underlings do not fly Teslas.
The noise became louder and louder until it completely ruined the music that was playing in my "office", also known as, the only container on top of a tower in the yard. I got... well, upset, you could say. Next I know it, I'm bursting out the door of the container, sliding down the combi-stairs and stomping my way to the hover machine. The most curious workers who had looked up to see what was happening, quickly glanced down and avoided my gaze. I was always a hard worker and so I demand that the others that work for me are the same. Also, it's useful to have them fear me, otherwise I would have no leverage over the guys who are bigger than me or the gals who could shred me to pieces with their own hands.
Filled with confidence from the power burst I just got I got to the hover machine. A door opened up a released a bit of steam. I snorted to myself, "cheesy alert!". I mean who does this without needing it? Only the seekers of old. The ones that still live in the past where technology was still being invested and felt like magic.
A tall woman came out. An Enhanced alright, she made a point of showing both the human flesh (because men will be men) and the cyber implants and shiny prostetics. 
I wondered how tall she would actually be without those extra-long limbs.
It was snowing and a bit breezy so her long hair flew with the wind in ways that I had only seen info-ads on the screens. There was something majestic about her, something enthralling... I felt I could not take my eyes of off her until her voice woke me up. A low velvety voice, like those podcast anchors have.
"It's terrible weather! Can we go inside somewhere?" - she said over the wind.
I snapped out of it and regained composure.
"Yes. Let's go up there." - I pointed to the tower and the combi-stairs which now turned into an escalator. She did not hesitate. No permission needs to be asked by those entitled Enhanced. They own everything. At least they walk around like they own everything.
I followed her, admiring the shine of her entirely blue hair and the curves of her body. But I was not the only one doing this. Half my workers let out cries "Onius is getting lucky!", "She's a fox!", "Go "... I shouted back with confidence: "Shut it Mack, or tomorrow you'll be singing tunes on the road!". The comments died down. I looked back up and she had already entered the container. I hurried up.
When I arrived up there, she had sat down on MY chair, looking at whatever was on the screen. I opened my mouth to complain but, surprisingly, nothing came out. She noticed, but do you think she even moved a muscle? Nope, nothing. These people, man, I'm telling you, they're just impossible to deal with. After a couple of seconds which sounded like minutes, she opened up here mouth: "What a dumpster! I mean I know this is a scrapyard, but I thought even in a scrapyard, they'd have a cleaner area.". She made a point to look around over all the cans I had opened, leftovers of various foods, etc. I blushed and proceeded to tell my body to UNBLUSH IMMEDIATELY. I mean, nobody ever comes here. The owner barely knows of its existence, Oebius is now mostly retired and the workers are not allowed up here (it's a status thing I have). Could it be a bit nicer? Sure! But why bother?
Outside the wind picked up, I could not even see the scrapyard anymore, which weirdly gave me a feeling of privacy in a way. I still had not made up my mind about whether I liked or despised this person.
"So... what trash do you specialise in here?" - she said with here velvety voice.
"Trash? We don't do trash. We separate working parts and fix them so they can be reused." - I replied.
"Yah, Yah, that. Do you have any specialty?" - Some yards had specialised over the years in parts for humans or flying machines, or gambling machines, you know, niches that would be profitable. What tends to happen is that someone at some yard gets better at fixing a certain type of parts or they get a reliable supplier of that type of parts and they start doing more of those. With time the place becomes associated with the part and the buyers only go there for that part. With a hint of shame in my voice masquerated by despondency I replied: "We're not that fancy around here. We'll take what we can get."
"What is it that you need anyway?" - I was going on a limb here, I did not even know if she was here to buy any part or anything.
And with the ease and confidence of someone who is loaded she just replied: "This scrapyard. I need it. Who's the owner?". My jaw dropped. How could she just get here and think that she can buy whatever she wanted? What a nerve! Even with money, the place isn't even for sale!
She must have noticed all the expressions that ran through my face and my body language, so she toned it down a bit: "Do you know who the owner is? Where I can find it?" (Enhanced individuals no longer obeyed the traditional rules of masculine and feminine, they were just "its").
Still shocked as if a bomb had exploded next to my ear (which it did once, I'll tell you later), I gathered myself, moved my feet closer together and casually moved my arm to support my weight on to the wall. I was shaken, but I was not letting this Enhanced pull one over me. She may have the parts, but I'm just as smart!
"I do not know the owner, he was never here. But you can talk to Oebius. He's the general manager."
"Good. I like you already." - she said with a hint of disdain.
I moved my wristpad toward her and sent Oebius contact over.
To my surprise she did not even wait until she was back in the car. She decided to make the call right there, from MY seat, feet up on MY table. 
"Hello? This is Kat Hoedeman. Is this Oebius?". I could not hear anything from the other side, so she must've had one of those jawbone implants that vibrate in a way that she listens without others hearing a beep.
"Yes, Yes, I am one of those Hoedemans. Can we skip the pleasantries? I want this yard." - I could see she was preparing to send him the coordinates, because as any entitled prick, she assumed he had multiple yards. But then she stopped and said. "Yes, exactly that one..." Oebius tried to pull one over her by making it seem that he had multiple, but had failed miserably. "How much does it cost?", she said preemptively. "Do I need to speak to the owner or are you qualified to make the sale?" (a short silence) "Okay, that is a fair price." She lowered her wrist and flicked the money as if up to the ether. The comms system already knew who she was talking to and had all its info, so the money would arrive there instantly.
"Alright, pleasure doing busi..." She was cut off. I could totally see that it annoyed her. "No, I'm keeping the workers. Send over their wages info and they won't feel a difference. In pay, that is." Right then, she looked at me with a raised eyebrow that gave me the chills. What did she mean by that? I guess I was thankful to keep my job, but what job would it be? All I ever knew to do was to work the yard. "Bye" - she said into the call.
In a matter of fact way, she now turned to me and said: "You now work for me, and the first thing you need to do is to tell your crew that they do too. I'll come back tomorrow at 1120 to give out orders. Make sure everyone is assembled. And pleeeease, get some sort of cover for the meeting. This place is too small and snow is expected again tomorrow".
