Chapter 1 - Onius

It all started in the backstages of science. Some papers would come out every now and then under the guise of treating some fatal disease. They were highly technical and super specific, so unless you were already an expert on the field, it would never reach your radar. Experiments were done with Drosophilas (fruit flies) and mice, so nobody really cared. Years back there had been one well known attempt to clone a living sheep "Dolly", but it was found that the cloned version aged much faster because it's cells were not pluripotent anymore, they were already specialised with telometers worn out. What I'm trying to say here is that the research that did happen was not very innovative nor moving very fast. So people do what they do, they forget about it and move on to look at shinier things like blockchain, streaming services and the eventual coming of teleportation (which hasn't arrived yet, I can already tell you).

Then PCR machines became better and faster and cheaper, but what really accelerated the process was the fact that people did not seem to mind to give away their genomes for free for some corporation to give them a crappy report about how much of their DNA came from different continents. I actually read that people were paying these companies to give their DNA away! Your own DNA. Can you believe it? The most secret and stable part of yourself and you'd just give it away? Anyway, I'm ranting again. I've not been in a good mood for a long time, but you'll understand why soon enough.

So, where was I? Oh yes, the acceleration started when these companies - under the guise of telling you where you really came from and which percentage you had of one day contracting some hereditary illness - got a nice big chunk of the World's population's genomes. Then it was just a matter of computing and storage resources to sequence, save and feed the data to specialised Artificial Intelligences to dig through the variations and match sequences to real world phenotypes and circumstances. Yeah, right, I forgot to say that this was also the time where a bunch of populists were elected into power. So while yet another tax cut was being issued, companies were getting access to more and more data sources, even previously out of reach ones. Soon, if your company was big enough or if you had enough money to bribe the officials, you had realtime access to CCTV cameras (using backdoors), satellite data, social security records and the likes.

Now we have all the ingredients for the next stage to unfold, DNA companies with access to where you were at all times, what activity you were doing, even your temperature, agitation and others using the sensors in everybody's pockets. From then on the changes happened so abruptly that no laws were made in time, no systems put in place and most of all, there was no time for people to adapt.

In the year of 19 a Chinese doctor said, and showed how he had cloned babies that had been improved to be resistant to the HIV virus. The public outcry came as quickly as it went. People had more pressing issues, like the rise of authoritarianism, climate change events, and the effects of societies where one needed to consume more to be happy, but had to work even more to be able to consume.

In 21, it was the time for a group of MIT scientists to announce that they had isolated the cause for cancer and wanted to free the world of this plague. Initially this news was met with skepticism, their peers kept proving that the cured worked by replicating the results. Pretty soon, the headline on the tabloids was "Cancer will die this year". Then the oddest thing happened. Governments started thinking about how to give this to their people, and because terms were 4 or 5 years, and each inoculated person free of cancer meant an almost certain vote, they became aggressive in the way of distribution. Each country gathered their best scientists to find the optimal way to give this to everyone on the planet in the fastest and cheapest way. Pharma did try hard to get in on the run, but their pitch was 5 years too late for the elected officials. With Pharma sidelined, the discussion was briefly about morals. The science community had a schism of sorts, half of the scientists said that we had to go the traditional approved way and run tests on mice, then monkeys, then small groups of humans, then wait for any unintended consequences, then a bigger group... "WE WILL ALL DIE OF NATURAL CAUSES BEFORE WE GET THE BENEFIT FROM THIS CURE", was the continuously quoted line of the then American President.

Tired of being out of a limelight which favoured technology moving at breakneck speed, the other half of scientists wanted a faster evolution.

There is no record of who came up with the idea, let alone who approved it, but overnight there was a decision from France to distribute the cure over the air, with the flu virus. This is what the French President then had to say: "Dearr citizans of Frrance, we have given this a lot of consideration and concluded we will prrovide the cure to everry citizan forr free by airrr. Starrting tomorrow, planes will go acrross France and deliverr the cure in the form of a common cold. After a few days of sneezing every French citizan will be rid of the biggest plague of the centurry. Pour la Liberté, Fraternité et Egualité!".

There was a small part of the population kept indoors for a few days, but no one can really escape the common cold virus, so after about one week, the process was deemed completed.

Other countries followed France's suit, but the thing is that viruses do not know human borders, so they quickly spread through the 500 million people of Europe and by flight to all 4 continents.

In less than one month the whole planet was free from all forms of cancer and there was much jubilation, newspapers kept going on and on about how we had entered a great new era and how we would all live forever.

This win was massive for R&D around the world. National budgets, which previously allocated 1-3% to R&D, were now readjusted to allocate 20-40%. Advancements followed suit, particularly after FDA and other institutions loosened their rules effectively liberalising the whole science landscape. Every couple of months there was another disease lifted. The distribution process for these cures and improvements became standardised as the virus airdrop. When most of the diseases were done, the human limitations were the next vector. Baldness, fobias, infertility. Human lives were being "improved" at a dramatic rate, and scientists goal moved from improving life to improving humans.

Cybernetics, a field with slugglish development for a long time, had a growth spurt, and suddenly you stopped seeing cybernetic limbs as replacements of biological ones that were broken or gone due to accidents and started seeing cybernetic parts as addons to regular humans. Want to hear better? Get these implants! Don't have years to train to become a marathonist? Get these leg muscle extenders which will give you two strides lenght for each one you give. Anyway, you can see where I'm going with this. Being modified became the norm and being an unadulterated human became being the weird one out. The logic that was applied as peer pressure was always the same: Why would you not get X if it will make you better at Y? Is it the money? Or are you a Ludditte (funny how some concepts seem to cross centuries)?

So after a period of great equalisation where the worse diseases were simply wiped out for (almost) everyone on the whole planet, the imbalances were quick to show up. Cybernetics spread was the opposite of the vacines. Whereas the vacines came first and were over the air for everyone, cybernetics came afterwards and the market was waiting for them. All implants and alterations were sold, not given away, and although the prices came down quickly due to the heavy government investment into these technologies, they became the differentiator, the status symbol. The uber rich were no longer measured by how many houses or fancy cars, but by how much faster/stronger/better they were than the people around them. And so, in a short amount of time, society was divided again, between the haves and the have nots. With one difference, now the haves could buy themselves a better body to do any kind of task they wished and the have nots… well, they were left to do work that their bodies could handle.

I am one of those have nots. My parents were very religious, so when the rumours started about the vacines over the air, and their pastor told them that these things were interfering with God's work, they picked me up and ran to the hills, where we lived for a couple of years in the bunker that my grandparents had built during Cold War III. I was two then, so I don't really remember much, just what they told me and what I could see on the holo-screens. When the vaccination programs were finished they decided that it was time for us to go back into the world, but it was too late by then. In a brief period of time, the world as we knew it was completely changed. My parents, who had previously been teachers, could only find cleaning jobs. And when I came of age at 13 I followed suit. I did not have any special immune system (although only my parents knew of this), nor did I have any special education, skill or body part, so I became the scrapyard kid. Scrapyards, you see, popped up like mushrooms all over, because of all the cybernetic parts, which kept becoming obsolete every couple of years. The "yards" as people call it, actually became sources of wealth for their owners. When space stops being a commodity to become scarce, the value per square metre goes up. 

I know what you're thinking. Is this kid the rich owner of the yard or just a poor worker? Well, actually neither. I was a poor worker, but because I started young, I moved up the food chain and I now report almost directly to Oebius, the rich owner who never sets foot in this place. It is my job to control stock, incomings and outgoings, the robots and the few human workers we have left. As a result I get paid a decent amount of coins.

My parents died a couple of years back. One right after the other. Healthcare also evolved to become extremely expensive because most people don't need it, they just change parts and are immune to everything, so when my mother got sick from working too much, we could not afford the fix and she passed within months. My father died of "heart break" as they say. He barely lasted a month after she was gone until he had a heart attack and that was that. Fortunately, Oebius is rich but not a complete arse and he invited me to learn the supervisory role so I could earn some more and that's where I stayed since.

That's enough for today. I'll continue my story tomorrow. Oh! Yeah, the name is Onius. I would say nice to meet you, but it probably wouldn't be true.
